# The Sharp programming language
This book will teach you about the Sharp programming language.
Sharp is a programming language with a healthy mixture of procedural, functional and object-oriented features.
It is made to make programming faster and easier while making the programmer use safe abstractions.

Sharp is compiled to LLVM, and thus provides better performance than dynamic languages while having a simple syntax that makes programming in Sharp as fast as in these quick scripting languages.

## Goals

- **Simple** - Sharp should be **easy and quick** to write in. Sharp's main design focus lies in *removing unnecessary obstacles* from the programmer's way, *consistency of syntax*, and in *reducing language complexity* while offering many semantically complex operations.
- **Functional** - Sharp offers many devices to accomplish the programmer's goal; be it functional or object-oriented features, or convenient and expressive language constructs.
- **Maintainable** - Sharp's syntax offers tools that help code maintainability through type inference
- **Readable** - Through its relative simplicity and expressive syntax, Sharp code should be readable. Sharp enforces some syle rules to make code from different people and companies closer together.

### Simple
- **Usability and Expressiveness** - Sharp should be easy to write in. The programming language shouldn't put unneccesary burdens on the programmer, such as mandatory semicolons after each statement. This also means that Sharp carefuly chooses which approaches from other languages to adopt and which it won't. KISS applies.
- **Extensibility** - User defined types are first-class members of the language. Complex libraries can be made easy to use via abstractions like custom literals, operator overloading and properties.

### Functional
- **Imperative features** - The core of Sharp is imerative. The entry point of the program is a function and most low-level code is to be written in an imperative way.
- **OO features** - Sharp contains a simple class model with smart code reuse and smart polymorphism. Single inheritance is implemented and classes may implement interfaces defined by Traits.
- **Functional features** - Sharp has a powerful `function` type encompassing callable objects, function references, lambdas and closures.
- **Safety** - Although this is not one of the main features of Sharp, some basic steps toward safety are taken. Low level types like pointers are completely replaced by higher level abstractions like iterators and mutable references. RAAI ensures automatic object destruction and the only way of allocating objects on the heap is a safe unique reference type with automatic deallocation. Safety is ensured where it requires little extra effors, but there are areas where there is undefined behavior in the language.
- *future* **Concurrency support** - In the future, Sharp will have built-in, easy to use concurrency tools.

### Maintainable and Readable
- **Consistency** - It shouldn't let programmers write ugly code. This is in part achieved by having the indentation define code blocks, but there are other various checks to ensure code consistency and to avoid unexpected magic code snippets. This doesn't intefere with regular coding, but doesn't let you go out of your way to write ugly code. This also means that Sharp enforces its coding standards regarding identifiers.

[next](01.getting_started.md)