# Primitive types
Sharp has a small number of built-in types. This section describes them.
The standard library provides you with a number of built-in types, but this section only describes the simplest of them.

## Booleans
`Bool` can have either of two values: `true` or `false`.
```
var x = true
var y: bool = false
```

## Data
The type `Byte` is a 8-bit data type.
It is essentially an 8-bit unsigned integer.

## Integers
There are two major types of integers in Sharp: signed and unsigned.
Signed integers can hold positive and negative values, like `5` or `-1`.
Unsigned integers can only hold values from `0` up.

There are two basic integer types, `Int` and `UInt`.
All literals are implicitly unsigned, but the unary `-` operator will easily convert literals to an unsigned integer.

Sharp programs always return `UInt`. Both `Int` and `UInt` are at least 64 bits large.
Int and UInt types are only implicitly convertible to each other when the compiler can ensure that where is no loss of information.

## Floating point types
Sharp provides the typical floating point types with the signatures
`Float16`, `Float` and `Double`. These correspond to IEEE-754 binary-16, single and double precision numbers.

## Characters
The `Char` type is a single utf-8 character. Unlike most other languages, it is actually four bytes.
```
var x = 'c'
var x = '⚛' // atom symbol
```

## Strings
Strings are a built-in type.
They are dynamically sized sequences of utf-8 characters.

```
var s = "Hello"
var letter = s[4] // 'o', type Char
s.length // == 5, the length of the string in utf-8 characters
```

## Arrays
Sharp has built-in arrays, like most other languages.
```
var x = [1, 3, 2] // x: UInt [3]
var y: mut Byte [50] = {0, 42} // the rest are zeroes
var z = [1,] // a trailing comma to denote a 1-element array
```
Arrays have a fixed size and contain values of the same type.

```
var array = [1, 2, 3]
array.size // array, length: 3
array[0] // access to the first element
array.first // or like this
array[array.size - 1] // access to the last element
array.last // or like this
```
## Tuples
Tuples are a fixed-size sequence of potentially different types.
```
var t = (true, 5, 'c') // tuple: (Bool, UInt, Char)
t.0 // first element
t.1 // second element
```

We will talk more about tuples and the operations with them in a later section.

## Functions
Functions can be assigned into variables, like this:
```
fn foo(x: Int)
	return x * 5

var x = foo
```

We will talk about functional features more deeply in the following sections.

[previous](02.02.functions.md) | [next](02.04.comments.md)
