# Functions
```
fn foo()
	pass
```
This is the simplest possible function definition.
The keyword `fn` signifies a function, `foo` is the function's identifier and the parentheses are the list of arguments.

Let's declare a more complicated function:
```
fn foo(i: u8, mut y: bool): bool
	return i > 5 and y
```
This function signature tells us the following things:
- The function's name is `foo`
- `foo` has two arguments: `i`, an immutable `u8`, and `y`, a mutable `bool`
- `foo` returns a `bool`

Arguments are separated with a comma, both when declaring the function and when calling it.
You must declare the types of the function arguments.
```
fn foo(i: bool): bool
	return not i
```

The `return` statement breaks the execution of the function and returns the value. We will go over flow control in a later section of the book.

## Return type inference
If the `return` statements are empty (or if there are none at all), the function implicitly returns a 0-tuple.
Otherwise, if the return type is not specified, the return type is inferred from the first `return` statement, like this:
```
fn foo()
	return false // foo returns bool
```

If type inference is used for the return value of the function, all return statements must return the same type as the first return statement (or types that are implicitly convertible to that type). 

## Function overloading
You may specify multiple functions with the same name that differ in argument types.
This creates multiple functions, and the correct one is called based on the number and types of the supplied arguments.
```
fn foo()
	pass

fn foo(x: bool)
	pass

fn foo(x: u64)
	pass

foo(true) // the second function is called
```

## Implicit argument values
In any function, you can specify the argument's default value.
```
fn foo(x: i64 = 42)
	return x + 5
```

When calling the function, the default argument is inserted if missing at the end of arguments:
```
foo() // first argument is 42
```

You can specify the default values even for arguments that are not at the end of the list.
The keyword `default` can be used to use the default value in the function.
Note that `default` is a generic keyword, we will say what is means later.
```
fn foo(x: bool = false, y: bool)
	return x and y

foo(default, false) // regular default
foo(default::<bool>, true) // to avoid ambiguity
```

## Unused arguments
The compiler will complain if your function takes arguments, but doesn't use them.
We indicate that an argument will not be used by naming it `_`. This identifier is usable multiple times in argument declarations.

```
fn foo(_: bool)
	return 10
```

## Statements and expressions
The bodies of functions are made of statements and expressions. Expressions return values, statements do not. An expression is a special case of a statement.

The simplest statement is `pass`. It does nothing.
Variable declarations are statements. You cannot do something like `var x = (var y = 5)`, it would cause an error.
All compound statements are statements; we will go over them in the following sections. A function definition is one of them.

[previous](02.01.variables.md) | [next](02.03.primitive_types.md)
