# Variables
Variables are created when the keyword `var` is used, like this:
```
var x = 5
```

Note that we cannot create multiple variables on a single line, we have to create each on their own lines.

## Mutability 
A variable without additional modifiers is *immutable*. This means that its value cannot be changed once a value is assigned to it.
The keyword `mut` lets us create mutable variables, like this:
```
var x = 5
var y: mut = 6
var z: mut Int = 7
// x = 5 // error: changing the value of an immutable variable
y = 10 // OK
z = 15 // OK
```

## Type annotations
Sharp is a statically typed language, which means that every variable only has one type during its lifetime.
When we don't specify a variable's type, it is automatically inferred from the value we assign to it.
To specify the type of the variable we want to create, we declare it like this:
```
var x: UInt = 5
var y: mut Int = 5
```
In this case, the variable `x` is an immutable unsigned integer and `y` is a mutable signed integer.
As a rule of thumb, we read the types left-to-right when they consist of multiple words or symbols.

## Variable binding
If we want to create a variable and assign a value to it later, we have to annotate its type.
```
var x: Bool
x = true
```
Before its first use, the variable has to be initialized; if it is not, the compiler will recognise this and the compilation will end with an error.

## Scope and shadowing
Variables have scope; they only live within the block they were defined in.
Blocks are defined by their level of tab indentation; each extra tab creates a block of code.
```
var x: mut = 5
	var y: mut = 6
	y = x // ok, y is now 5
	var x = 7
	y = x // y is now 7
x = y // error, y is no longer recognised as a variable
```

Within a single block, variables can be shadowed by another with the same name.
```
var x = 5
var x = false // variable x with value 5 is no longer visible
var y = x
```

When creating a new variable within a nested block, the behavior is the same, until we exit the block; this makes the original variable visible again:
```
var x = 5
	var x = false // previous x is no longer visible
	var y = x
var z = x // assigning 5
```

[previous](02.syntax_semantics.md) | [next](02.02.functions.md)
