# Lines
Sharp differentiates logical and physical lines.
All lines are physical lines, and some number of physical lines form a logical line.
To make it easier on us, we will refer to the lines that don't start a new logical line as physical lines.

Logical lines begin with a sequence of `tab` characters; their number defines the indentation. For each missing tab character compared to the last logical line, a code block ends, and for each extra tab character, a block begins.
```
// block 0
	// block 1
	pass
			// block 3
			pass
		// block 2
		pass
//block 0
```
After the tab characters, no whitespace characters must follow at the begginings of logical lines (with the exception of a newline on empty lines). This enforces the correct indentation and forbids extra spaces before any meaningful characters.

Physical lines must begin with a sequence of tab characters, but unlike logical lines, any number of whitespace characters other than tabs can follow. We can align our expressions that way.

All newline characters start a logical line, with the following exceptions:
- When prefixed with the `\` character. This causes the newline character to start a physical line instead.
- Within a string literal: Newline characters are ignored and the following line is physical.
- Within parentheses (`()`, `[]`, and `{}`): Within any of these parentheses, a newline simply creates a new physical line instead of a logical one. The following physical line must start with an extra tab for every opening parenthesis. The closing parenthesis can start at an indentation one less than the body inside the parentheses.

The following example demonstrates the indentation:
```
fn foo()
	var mut x = 5 + \
	            4 // one tab, rest are optional spaces
	var x = ( 5 + 
		4 + 7 // two tabs
	) // one tab
	var x = {
		5,
		5,
		7,
	}
	var y = x[5 -
		5
	]
	var s = "
	This is a multiline string,
	 it is very cool."
	// s == "This is a multiline string,\n it is very cool"
```
